Greetings, esteemed Dharma friends.
We continue with the
excerpt from the Great Sutra, and
this part, which we have already read, is about the
meaning of the great Bodhisattva's birth.
Dear Dharma friends, before his birth,
our Buddha Shakyamuni
was called a Bodhisattva of the last
life, and all Buddhas,
when they are born, are also Bodhisattvas of the last life.
What does "Bodhisattva of the last life" mean? It means that this person is
born for the last time in the human world and becomes a Bodhisattva of the last life,
signifying the highest position
of a Bodhisattva, that is, a Bodhisattva of the highest rank,
having the power to attain this final stage.
They are called Bodhisattvas of the last life.
Dear Dharma friends, in the same
context, in the water of the breaking of the veil and in the garden of the Bodhisattva Anathapindika, the monks
also asked about his
previous life, and the Buddha recounted the
birth of the
Buddha Vipassī. Continuing from the
previous lesson...  The event of the Buddha's birth
is
that the Bodhisattva, in his first incarnation, entered the realm of the
Bodhisattva. Before the final stage, the mother,
the mind of the Bodhisattva, passed away. Please reread this
scripture a little.
The monks think that
after giving birth to the Bodhisattva, after 7 days, the Bodhisattva's mother passed
away and ascended to the Tushita heaven.
Respectfully, we
have heard and learned from
other scriptures that when the mother of
Prince Siddhartha, Queen
Maya, gave birth to Prince Siddhartha, after 7
days she also passed away and ascended
to the Tushita heaven. Here, the mother of the Bodhisattva, who
was the Buddha's previous incarnation, was
also like that. The truth is,
this person did
not have enough merit to give
birth to the
Buddha. Therefore, no merit
in this world can lead to such a
state of life for a person with
such abundant merit. The merit in
this world, and the person who enjoys it the most, is
too small. Therefore, at
birth...  A Bodhisattva who is destined to be born into a certain
realm must reside in the Tushita heaven, and only then can they
receive the blessings of that realm.
Listen carefully and understand this. Therefore,
when Bodhisattvas of that rank are
born, if their mothers have abandoned their
physical bodies, we shouldn't wonder
why.
But Bodhisattvas destined to be born into a certain realm, when they are
born, their mothers are
still
caring for them as if their mothers were still
present. Let's follow the
princess and continue reading. While
other women may be sitting or lying down while giving birth, the
Bodhisattva's mother is
not like that. The Bodhisattva's mother is standing while giving
birth. When a Bodhisattva is born from the womb, the
celestial beings take care of them first, then
humans. As for
us here, we are born, and
if we haven't even had time to cry, we'll make them cry. We're
afraid they won't be able to speak, but they will eventually...
Usually, those people see
a child born who hasn't cried yet.  We
also have to slap it a
few times to make it cry, otherwise we're afraid it will
choke on amniotic fluid or something like
our crying. How can we translate
the cost of our crying? It's too difficult, too hard to bear. That is,
our crying is so healthy,
but then there's a sound of sitting down, and then it sounds like "
so much suffering, so much suffering." That is, when we are
born and cry, it's so much suffering
because it contains the cry of a baby, so
much suffering, so much suffering. We are born
like this, suffering from the very first moment.
The Bodhisattvas give birth to us, we
see, do we have food? No, it's very joyful.
The mind is illuminated, the complete contemplation. Please read and summarize.
When the Bodhisattva is born from the mother's womb, the
Bodhisattva does not touch the earth.
There are four heavenly beings. They receive the day, place it
before the mother, and say, "Queen, please be joyful." The
Queen gives birth to a great person, who
eats very wonderfully. After being
born from the Bodhisattva's womb, the green day becomes pure,
not contaminated by
any viscous water, not contaminated by any kind of sleep,
not contaminated by any kind of blood,
not contaminated by any impure thing.
Pure and clean, but when we are
born, our
mothers' amniotic sacs rupture before we are
born. Therefore, before birth, we are covered in slimy, dirty,
smelly amniotic fluid. If we are
not careful, that amniotic fluid can get into our
noses, throats,
and eyes. Our eyes can burst
from the moment we are born. We
need to be immediately treated because of the
slimy, sticky, and foul feeling. What is that? It's due to
our karma. The realm we live
in the womb creates that state
when we are born, covered in slimy, dirty
fluid. We
cry out in anguish, and
even the person who delivers
us has to make us
cry. We need to cry to have the karmic connection to live in
this realm. If we don't cry, we'll
die. Seeing this,
evil karma creates an
evil realm from the very beginning.
From the moment we are in the womb until
we are born, the realm is already
evil because of our evil hearts.
Let's continue to see the realm.
His presence outside, when summer had just
arrived, in the Bodhisattva's first life,
how was he born?
When the Bodhisattva was born from his mother's womb, two
streams of water appeared from the void, one
cold and one hot. These two streams of water
bathed the Bodhisattva and his mother,
respectfully
remembering the past. So you still have these two streams of water
in the void
to bathe the body; this bathing is called offering a
sacrifice, a great compassion.
Where is the dirt? These two streams of hot and
cold water are said to be the beginning of
your descent into this world. The hot and
cold water symbolize the two
good and evil deeds in life. If we
take a bath, after bathing in hot water and then pouring
cold water on ourselves, we will be punished. Even if we
die, the
merits of the mother and the
merits of the Bodhisattvas
have caused all the adverse intentions in
this world, the
adverse circumstances, the adverse weather, to
not
harm them. They
continue to live in such a state to declare
the great realm.  Regarding the meritorious deeds and blessings
that the Bodhisattva created, the true
illumination of the Perfect Contemplation continues.
Two Bodhisattvas, upon birth, stood firmly
balanced on two feet, facing
north. After taking a few steps,
with the white of their eyes covered, they looked in all
directions, and with a loud voice like a
king, they uttered the following words: "I am the
supreme being in the world, I am the most revered being in the
world, I am the highest being in the world. This is my
last life; I will not be
reborn in this world again." When the Bodhisattva
was born from his mother's womb, an immeasurable, wondrous
radiance, far surpassing the power of the
gods, appeared throughout the world.
Here, we have already heard the previous sutra.
Respectfully, dear fellow practitioners,
upon his birth in this world and his
last life, he perfected the clear and insightful understanding
of himself. Perfecting the accurate understanding of
himself means: "I am the supreme being in the world, I am the most revered being in the world,
I am the
highest being in the world. This is my
last life; I will not be
reborn in this world again." Therefore,
we must learn this...
What virtues should one cultivate
at home during the
Bodhisattva path? It's about constantly reflecting
inward, seeing the truth about
oneself. We must contemplate and see the truth
about ourselves. We
must recognize
what virtues are valuable and cultivate them.
We must also eliminate those virtues that make us inferior or lowly.
This is the cause that allows
us to clearly understand ourselves. If we want to know who
we were in our previous lives in the next life,
we must practice this virtue. We must cultivate
this virtue, being
true to ourselves, being honest
with ourselves.
We must always cultivate
high and good virtues outwardly. Only then will we know
where we can excel. We
know this to develop our potential,
not to criticize.
The Buddha said, "
I am the highest being in the world." This is what
Bodhisattvas in many lifetimes always strive for, to achieve
virtues that surpass others.  Around
us...
Yes, that's something we have to learn, we can't
not. Just like in a class,
people usually
see the good students and
strive to be
better than them. Then there's the
tendency to look down, to
think, "I'm still better than
someone in the class, I have to study more."
I'm still a little annoyed, but it's okay. That's
not right. It means being better is about
discovering yourself, achieving yourself,
not about looking down on or being
arrogant. That's something we have to
learn.
And next, the next part is about the day
you were born, you had 32 auspicious signs and 80 beautiful features.
Here's another point that I've been discussing
from the beginning:
When you were born, you were
embraced by the celestial beings. When you were born, there
were two streams of hot water to bathe you.
Respectfully, there are
spiritual realms that the Bodhisattvas, due to their merits, attain.
Outside of
this realm, the realm of reincarnation is protected by the four heavenly kings. Even on the
day of birth, called the "pregnancy fever," we are protected by
celestial maidens, and then by dragons
spraying hot and cold water to
bathe our bodies. This is because the dragons are full of water, and
then they offer protection from the outside. All other protection from
this spiritual world comes from the merits of our fellow
practitioners. Those with
merit are protected by the spiritual world within
this realm.
You are less learned
in this lesson; we will
contemplate and analyze the karmic consequences of our spiritual practice.
If we are
meritorious, then the spiritual world in the three thousand
great worlds
will protect us. But if
we are not meritorious, then we are born into suffering. We are
given a few slaps, then we
are bathed, then our
umbilical cords are cut, leading to infections.
The weather changes, and after
a few days of birth, we get measles,
right? Then we get
pimples, and that's why
this weather affects us.
How much is it? Even after bathing with starfruit leaves,
bathing with warm water, and all sorts of other things, we still get rashes. It's so
much! We are tormented by this realm
because we lack
merit. The beings in
this spiritual realm have merit, protecting us through
offerings to the houses. So, if
we want the spiritual realm
around us to support us,
we must accumulate merit and
paramitas like the Bodhisattvas. Opening the merit and
paramitas is born from the law of harmony. The Six Harmonies are selfless, equal, and non-
discriminatory, right? The Six
Harmonies are like that, complete with precepts and
avoiding wrongdoing, progressing on merit. The Six Harmonies are
extremely noble, causing the spiritual realm
around us to support us
in the following stages, and of course,
this will also support
our meditation practice today, which is contemplating the
birth of the Buddhas.
Similarly, that birth is protected and supported by the surrounding spiritual world
during
this period.  The
arising of diligent practice and
cultivation through harmonious practice
has brought us blessings,
as the surrounding spiritual realm
protects us in this life and
many lives to come, until the day
we
attain the Bodhisattva stage of enlightenment.
We must cultivate diligent practice and vow to diligently
cultivate the Paramitas in many lifetimes, so that the
surrounding spiritual world will always protect and support
us in this life and many lives to come. To achieve this state of perfect enlightenment,
we must
further contemplate that when we are pointed out, if
we do not practice and fulfill our duties, we will
not be harmonious. Therefore, when we are pointed out, we give rise to
unwholesome thoughts, and
these unwholesome thoughts are
evil, causing us to stray from the Dharma
of Harmony, preventing us from achieving
purity and merit. We
must eliminate the unpleasant thoughts
after being pointed out for not practicing and fulfilling our duties,
eliminating those
unwholesome thoughts when we are pointed out.  The lack of
practice of the Six Harmonies requires cultivating a joyful and
grateful heart when someone points out our shortcomings.
We have people encouraging us to practice,
so we have two ways to
open a shop: firstly, to contemplate the
spiritual realm of
protection and support, to be a
Bodhisattva, and to be born in this
realm on the day of the Bodhisattva's birth (as in topic 1); secondly, to cultivate a courageous and vigorous heart to practice the Six Harmonies, because the Six Harmonies will generate merit, eliminating our unwholesome thoughts and
discomfort when
others point out our lack of
practice. This generates
joy and happiness
after others point out
our shortcomings and encourage us to practice. That is
our blindness. I respectfully
wish all esteemed Dharma friends a peaceful meditation session, enlightenment, and
increased Bodhi Mind. I
offer this Bodhi-mind as a gift. Namo
Buddha Shakyamuni.
[Music]